most of the time when I present research
it is about my own research our own
research at spark Toro often with our
clickstream data provider datos but
today I don't want to talk about that I
want to talk about this excellent
research that came out a couple weeks
ago from sem
rush I they're an old competitor of mine
right from my my previous company Moz
obviously Spar Toro doesn't compete with
them but I thought this was just
outstanding work uh sem Rush is in the
SEO and PPC field they their software
company in that World um very big one
and they put together research on the
usage of chat BT using the same
methodology that we like at sporal
clickstream data so this is panels of
users who you get to see every URL that
they visit so really interesting
actually the some of the most
interesting stuff I think is buried down
down deep you can see you can see I'm
scrolled way down to the bottom of their
research here so in uh December of last
year so a few months before I recorded
this Chachi BT Drew 566 million visitors
according to their estimates worldwide
and Google is about seven times that
large maybe a little bit larger remember
both uh sem rush and Spark Toro and and
Doos we are collecting clickstream data
from browser URLs so apps are going to
be undercounted I'm guessing that
actually weights things more in Google's
favor because we miss out on mobile app
usage still Google about 7 eight times
as large as chat GPT and really
interestingly you can see that the
distribution of where chat GPT what it's
being used for and where it's sending
traffic is quite different from what is
going on in Google we have research on
that uh from our own from our own stuff
right that we did with um uh Doos last
year we could see the topical
distribution you'd see that Google is
very heavy in places like arts and
entertainment computers and Tech
e-commerce games science and education
Sports Finance soci media but but if you
look at the breakdown of chbt online
services then education which is shared
mass media it computer software and
develop a lot of programming stuff a lot
of Education stuff below that it starts
dropping off pretty quickly also
interesting very interesting is uh we
looked at the distribution of search
intent in Google here you go
distribution of search intent so about
52% of all queries are informational
about a third are navigational look at
the numbers that uh semrush put together
for chat gpt's search intent 10%
navigational 15% informational the
overwhelming majority almost 3/4 70% are
things you could not do with Google
right there are things like hey make me
this image hey would you write me this
document hey will you analyze this
spreadsheet for me all sorts of stuff
help me with this programming structure
and see if this code will compile blah
blah blah blah blah so I I just just
want to say what people are using chat
GPT for right those those the 17th 1/8
of people who use chat GPT as as much as
Google about 30% of them are using it
for replacement for Google types of use
cases now I I think what you care about
in addition to all all this you know
Wonderful data in here but what often
you care about is what about my audience
and if that's what you care about I
would urge you to to go try out um one
of the newer features in spark Toro is
that we use our clickstream data and we
look at people who search for for
example in this case backyard
Landscaping in Google and you can see
the results that come up there but of
the people who search for backyard
Landscaping what percent of them right
how many of them are using chat GPT is
it more or less than average turns out
by the way we have the data it is more
than average about 30% more than average
yeah but you know to be honest if you're
think about doing chaty BT types of
optimization right large language model
optimization to try and get your brand
in there well you should also be
thinking about it for Pinterest and
Wikipedia and Yahoo and Reddit right
because the these places I mean
Pinterest in particular quite high up
the list for what people who are looking
for backyard Landscaping no no surprise
right makes sense that Pinterest would
be used I'm just saying if we're looking
at you know this broad usage of chat GPT
with which summ does a great job of
breaking down here um and comparing that
to Google's usage this this is something
you might want to consider I do suggest
reading their report in full I will link
to it in the comments really truly great
work uh from the folks over there and
the commenters including uh uh one of my
friends Mike King who contributed to
this report too so check it out